-----------------------------MEETING WITH PRINCIPAL 2/7-----------------------------
Initial Questions

How can we keep in touch with the class to give updates and receive feedback?
	Should we give them HW?
How much coding experience do they have?
	How much do the kids know about this project?
What are we looking to make by the end?
When’s the first meeting w/ students?  Where’s the classroom?
How to structure classroom meetings / connect w/ kids
Are there mandatory subjects to cover?

In the Classroom:
Disclaimer!! We cannot do everything, we are learning too so we can’t promise what we can and cannot do. 
Break into teams for 10 min, come up w ideas
	3 teams?  13 kids — 4 each me & Connor, 5 teacher
give kids pencil & paper -> present ideas
	Public speaking, etc
debate/vote on best ideas
Collaborate with class to improve voted idea

Answers 

How many subjects?
miranda brenneman: some gamers, quieter, bright kids
is the learning the game?  (kahoot)
	answer questions, then play —> study island
kids have google docs/gmail

Engage:
meet in small groups
talk about mistakes++, SHOW to class (thought process)
when you’re given a task you don’t know how to do
google hour of code, padcaster (green screen)

mission:
create game
their ideas: what will it take?
	Theme
	break up according to that
convo w/i group —> put onto class google doc, present?
gallery of thoughts
there ARE mandatory content standards
google tools: can make slides, etc
when to meet:
Start tmrw
they are out last week of march

Intro
initial activity
show them something cool

getting there:
sign in @ office, go to library, sign waiver









-----------------------------MEETING WITH KIDS 2/8-----------------------------
Here are some ideas we came up with in the first meeting at Wiggin Street Elementary.

Connor's Group...

Subjects:
1. Science
- The kids almost all said their favorite subject was science.
- They were really excited about force of motion.
- Other topics included light and sound.
2. Math
- Multiplying decimals
- Percentages
- Fraction operations??
3. ELA
- No info provided
4. Social studies
- Native American history

Game Ideas:
- Most of the kids in my group said their favorite game was Minecraft.
They seemed to be enthusiastic about a survival based game. I gave them 
"The Oregon Trail" as an example, which they had all played. 
	-> Arctic survival 
	-> Early in history -> late in history
	-> Fight mobs, buy pet to defend mobs
	-> Try to get rescued to win game.
	-> Fishing/food
- Another game idea we came up with is something similar to Donkey Kong, 
where you would need to answer a question to go up a level. The kids also 
suggested that there be coins to pick up along the way, which you could use
to buy a new avatar to play as. 

Games the kids play:
- Minecraft
- Helix jump
- Flappy Bird
- Mariocart

Other good ideas:
- Questions get harder as game progresses (as you pass levels)
- Bonuses for correct answer streaks




Sam's Group...


Top 3 Game Ideas:
1. Spelling
2. Math
3. Science
4. ELA(?  how to turn into game?)

Important Components:
- user feedback (Rewards ex. pets, customization from in-game store)
    - see progress
- instructions and options
- levels of different difficulty
- spaced repetition.  Kids said it was really annoying when a game gave you a question you just got right or wrong.  Like Quizlet!
- see progress (save high and low scores?)
    - compete against past self

A lot of the kids' favorite game was Prodigy.  It's a math game that is
based around a quest-type format, incorporating the learning into the
larger overall game, to complete side quests, etc.  Hard for us to make a
story type game in the time that we have, but we can make it more fun w/
visuals and maybe animations.
They also brought up ABCya, which gamifies learning English, probably closer
to what is within our capabilities.  A little bit like Quizlet's games,
the central part is the game format (ex. shoot down asteroids or something)
where the user has to answer questions correctly to use power-ups, abilities,
etc. to win the game (and of course lose if they get it wrong).


Fun Components If Time:
- different modes
    - visuals: ninjas!
- various AIs
- online, play other users
- science games --> interactive

most important part of a game is a reward — kids talked about getting in-game money for certain # of questions correct, can buy stuff from in-game store
feedback: if get questions wrong, decrease difficulty, increase if right
spaced repetition like a quizlet (when you get a question right, don’t immediately put it again!)
levels?
